doc: bluetooth: mesh: rework DFU over Bluetooth Mesh guide and samples (#30086)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/bt/bt_mesh/dfu_over_bt_mesh.rst

.. note::
   The Mesh DFU feature in the nRF Mesh app is currently supported only on iOS.

.. _dfu_over_bt_mesh_roles_and_transport:

DFU roles and image transport
*****************************

The Bluetooth Mesh DFU Model specification defines four DFU roles:

* **Target** - a node that receives a firmware image and applies it.
  A Target instantiates the Firmware Update Server and BLOB Transfer Server models.
* **Initiator** - an entity that selects the firmware image to distribute and drives the distribution on the Distributor.
  An Initiator instantiates the Firmware Distribution Client, Firmware Update Client and BLOB Transfer Client models.
* **Distributor** - an intermediary node that stores the firmware image and delivers it to the Target nodes over the mesh network.
  A Distributor instantiates the Firmware Distribution Server, Firmware Update Client, BLOB Transfer Client and BLOB Transfer Server models.

> * **Standalone Updater** - an entity that delivers firmware images to Target nodes directly, without an intermediary Distributor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Target** - A node that receives a firmware image and applies it.
  A Target instantiates the Firmware Update Server and BLOB Transfer Server models.
* **Initiator** - An entity that selects the firmware image to distribute and drives the distribution on the Distributor.
  An Initiator instantiates the Firmware Distribution Client, Firmware Update Client and BLOB Transfer Client models.
* **Distributor** - An intermediary node that stores the firmware image and delivers it to the Target nodes over the mesh network.
  A Distributor instantiates the Firmware Distribution Server, Firmware Update Client, BLOB Transfer Client and BLOB Transfer Server models.
* **Standalone Updater** - An entity that delivers firmware images to Target nodes directly, without an intermediary Distributor.
```

Roles played by the nRF Mesh mobile app

> =======================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Roles of the nRF Mesh mobile app
================================
```

> When used with the samples provided in |NCS|, the nRF Mesh mobile app plays the following roles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When used with the samples provided by the |NCS|, the nRF Mesh mobile app has the following roles:
```

* Provisioner and Configuration Client, used to provision the devices and to bind the application key to the mesh models involved in the DFU procedure.
* Initiator, used to select the firmware image, register it on the Distributor, and start the distribution to the Target nodes.

> The mobile app is not a Distributor and not a Standalone Updater.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mobile app is not a Distributor or a Standalone Updater.
```

> The intermediary Distributor role is always played by the :ref:`ble_mesh_dfu_distributor` sample (or an equivalent device on the mesh network).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :ref:`ble_mesh_dfu_distributor` sample (or an equivalent device on the mesh network) always has the intermediary Distributor role.
```

How the firmware image reaches the Distributor
==============================================

The Bluetooth Mesh DFU Model specification defines two Upload Types on the Firmware Distribution Server:

* **In-band upload** - the Initiator pushes the firmware image to the Distributor over the mesh network using the BLOB Transfer models.

> * **Out-of-band upload** - the firmware image reaches the Distributor through a channel outside the mesh network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In-band upload - The Initiator pushes the firmware image to the Distributor over the mesh network using the BLOB Transfer models.
* Out-of-band upload - The firmware image reaches the Distributor through a channel outside the mesh network.
```

For out-of-band upload, the specification describes one concrete mechanism, the Store Firmware OOB procedure on the Firmware Distribution Server, driven by an Upload Firmware OOB procedure on a Firmware Distribution Client.
This procedure carries an Upload OOB URI that the Distributor uses to retrieve (pull) the image itself, for example over HTTPS.

> |NCS| supports a different out-of-band mechanism in the :ref:`ble_mesh_dfu_distributor` sample: the nRF Mesh mobile app uploads (pushes) the image to the Distributor's storage slot **over the Simple Management Protocol (SMP)** provided by the :ref:`zephyr:mcu_mgr` (mcumgr Image Management over a GATT connection), then registers the resulting firmware in a DFU slot and starts the distribution using the Firmware Distribution Client model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |NCS| supports a different out-of-band mechanism in the :ref:`ble_mesh_dfu_distributor` sample.
The nRF Mesh mobile app uploads (pushes) the image to the Distributor's storage slot over the Simple Management Protocol (SMP) provided by the :ref:`zephyr:mcu_mgr` (mcumgr Image Management over a GATT connection), then registers the resulting firmware in a DFU slot and starts the distribution using the Firmware Distribution Client model.
```

> Unlike the spec's Store Firmware OOB procedure, the SMP-based upload is not driven through the Firmware Distribution Server's Upload procedures, so it does not update the server's Upload Type or Upload Phase states.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike the Store Firmware OOB procedure described in the specification, the SMP-based upload is not driven through the Firmware Distribution Server's Upload procedures, so it does not update the server's Upload Type or Upload Phase states.
```
